---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering?"
date:       2020-09-09 16:58:12 +0000
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---

If I’m being honest Software Engineering was never where I thought I would end up as a career choice. From a young age I wanted to be an animal cop, a lawyer, a vet, a musician, or maybe a cosmetologist. I just knew I loved to help, I loved art and pretty things, and I want to leave something of substance behind when I was gone. Twists and turns of life occurred and instead I found myself working in the food service and retail field. While I was good at what I did, I never felt fulfilled. It was as if I stopped chasing what inspires me and settled for something that allowed me to get by. Yeah, it was a job, but it wasn’t a career. I wanted more. I needed more. 

Then life gifted me with my beautiful and amazing daughter....and the need to provide for a life other than my own. So, off I went to the job that didn’t fulfill me but did ensure that she would have what she needed. Fast forward a few years and I’m moving up in ranks. Thankfully that means more money but it also means more hours. *Retail* hours. Suddenly weekends and holidays are becoming more and more unreachable. I’m missing out on the most important thing to me: family. After a year of only being able to spend two hours each holiday and sacrificing 99% of my weekend time, I decided enough was enough. Never again. So, I began to envision where I wanted my life to go and what career I wanted to have. 

Upon beginning my quest for a career path, I made a list about what I wanted from a career. I wanted something that was going to challenge me and excite me. I wanted to get into an industry that is ever-changing and evolving so that I am constantly learning and pushing myself. I wanted to stay true to my interest in creating something. I wanted to be able to be present for my daughter and have a good work/life balance. When I came across Software Engineering, I had no idea it was so accessible. I had always assumed tech jobs required years of schooling (and to be a genius). Luckily, I learned that assumption was wrong (that both were thankfully ‘cause I’m smart but I’m no genius). I also came to learn that this career would not only fit my list but would fit me as a person. That I would excel and enjoy this line of work as someone who loves brain teasers, challenges, puzzles, learning, and finding new ways to think of things and see the world. I learned that code in a way is art and programmers are artists. Not only that, but Software Engineers are needed in basically every company. Depending on where I landed, I could get to be a part of something that helps and contributes good into the world. Maybe I could even begin something of my own. Pure accident led me to Flatiron School but instead I believe fate did (as I am definitely someone who believes in fate). The more I searched and discovered about the bootcamp, the more I knew this was the place for me. Then I attended a few virtual events and began the interview process and the rest is history.  

I appreciate Flatiron School's belief that anyone from any background can bring something to the table in tech. While other members of my cohort may have significantly more experience than I do, I am determined to succeed and curious to see what my personal experiences help me bring to the table. I'm very excited (and a tiny bit nervous) to see what the future holds for me in the coding world. Here's to my future endeavors!
